# Appraisal of land use planning and analysis reports
# Introduction
This study examined the appraisal of land use planning and analysis reports, with a view to understanding the types of land use projects addressed by the land use planning and analysis reports (LUPARs), examine the existing situation of different land uses on site as contained in the land use planning and analysis reports (LUPARs) and further evaluate the compliance level of the projects based on the land use planning and analysis reports (LUPARs) in the study area. The research was carried with a view that information gathered can be of use when making decision in respect to development control.
# Methodology
Data were collected from a secondary source which is the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning Authority. The approved documents (LUPARs) cut across all local government area (LGAs). The LGAs were subdivided in Lagos Metropolis and Peri-urban areas. Further, site inspections for the LUPARs were carried out in the form of reconnaissance survey and direct observation in the study area. Both qualitative and quantitative data analyses were employed during the course of the study. The analytical software were Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel.  
# Major Findings
Results show the projects 73.88% were residential, 19.18% were commercial, 3.27% were institutional, 3.27% were industrial and 0.41% were mixed land uses, and majority of them were within the metropolis area while the remaining few were in the peri-urban area. The study likewise found out there is a positive change with the planning regulations which was due to a high level of compliance rate to the land use planning and analysis report guidelines. Descriptive findings also showed that there was a large difference in the rate of compliance to planning regulations between construction in the metropolis areas and those constructed in peri-urban areas. Most respondents (84.13%) complied with the building planning regulation across 
# Conclusion
This study concludes that governments guidelines on land use planning and analysis reports (LUPARs) had a huge impact on the types of land use projects addressed by the LUPARs as most respondents admitted to have followed them. It was noted that respondents manipulated some important information in the land use planning and analysis reports (LUPARs) which were at variance with those obtained during the site inspections using direct observation. This might have influenced granting approval on development permits where they were not supposed to be granted.
